In this section we're going to build our first social app.
And this is going to be a clone of the popular app Instagram where people can take and post images and
then follow people that they like and view their photos.
So we're going to replicate that core functionality and to do that we're going to need a server.
So we're going to need a way to store user's data and photos somewhere on a central location so that
we can share them between users and we're going to be using a platform called passive server which is
an offshoot of Pasto home and allows you to host data like usernames passwords photos on your own servers.
So it allows you to essentially have a database without needing to manage or code your own database.
The great advantage of using past server over another solution such as firebase is that Passover is
completely stored on your own server.
So you're completely in control of your own data and can move it to another server if you like and you're
not at risk of your app failing.
If the company that you're using for data storage shuts down so per server you can run on any service
provider you like including Heroku Google Cloud or Microsoft as you.
But we're going to be using the most popular cloud service in the world which is AWOS or Amazon Web
Services.
And one of the big reasons we're using AWOS is because they offer a free tier to allow you to completely
try out past server on AWOS for 12 months without paying anything at all.
You also get 50 dollars of AWOS credit with this course.
So enough preamble Let's get started go over to AWOS dot Amazon Dot Com and click sign into the console.
If you don't have an Amazon account then you need to create one here.
If you do then just log in with your Amazon username and password.
So I'm going to log in with Rob at repairs of all the current UK and my password.
And now we logged in we're going to jump to services and you can see the huge range of services that
AWOS offers.
We're going to go for two which is short for Elastic Compute generation number two.
Essentially the elastic part of it means that it stretches to provide the resources that you need.
So if you only need a very small amount of resources because you're just testing out a new app then
you'll only be charged for those resources.
And indeed if you're running them on the free tier you won't be charged anything at all.
However if you do need more resources because you have started getting popular then you will get charged
more for that.
So the great thing is you only pay for what you use.
But the flip side of that is to be careful and monitor your account just in case your app becomes more
popular than you think it is.
All right.
So are we going to click launch instance to create a new AWOS instance which is essentially like a server
for us to store our data on.
And now we're going to go to AWOS marketplace and search for pass
and we're going to use passus server powered by Piton army.
You can see it's free to eligible to just select that.
And this essentially makes the installation of POS server very easy.
So make sure you choose the T2 micro which is Frita eligible.
And then just click review and launch and then launch.
And now we need to choose or create a key pair which we'll be using in a moment to access our AWOS instance.
So I'm going to create a new keypad and I'm going to call this Instagram Android because I've already
got an Instagram for my Iowa scores that I'm just going to download that and then launch instance and
this will then set up everything that you need to use pass server with AWOS.
You'll notice here that I'm on Firefox rather than Chrome.
Now that's because we're now going to access E.W. instance and we're going to use a bit of software
that works on Firefox but doesn't work on quite so I'd recommend using Firefox for this next step.
I'm now going to click on the instance name to load up the dashboard for that instance.
And what we need to do is find the application ID and client key which are stored and automatically
generated when the pass server instance is set up.
So to do that we're going to click connect and we're going to be connecting via something called S-sh
or secure shell which essentially allows us to log into our AWOS instance and run commands on it.
Now if you're familiar with S-sh you can use any S-sh client to do this and just follow those instructions.
But I'm going to use the Java S-sh client and that's because it works directly with Firefox and doesn't
require any installation so I think that's the simplest process unless you've got a client that you
use already.
Then we leave the public DNS username Kinane the same and we just have to give a key path.
We need to give it the location of this Instagram Android key.
I created a few moments ago.
So if you're in Windows then you just enter see code on backslash and then whatever the location of
that file is.
So wherever you saved it if you're on a Mac then if you find the file and click on it then you can control
click and click get info and that will tell you where it is.
So this is uses Roper's of all desktop search for what slash uses with a capital U.
And then Rob Percival desk top with a capital D.
And then I'll just remind myself of the file name Instagram Android p m..
There we go.
And I'd recommend keeping that in the browser cache so you don't have to enter it every time and then
click launch S-sh client and you'll likely see a couple of pop ups if you haven't done this before that
require you to install the S-sh client.
Just click OK and run through the process and then you should see something like this.
So this means we're locked into our past server and all has gone well.
If you don't see that the most likely issue is that the private key path is wrong.
So just check that and make sure that you've definitely got that right and then launch the S-sh client
again.
All right so now we're logged into our AWOS instance we need to find out what the client key and app
ID are so that we can enter them in our Android app and connect to our pass server.
So to do that we need a couple of fairly simple S-sh commands and the first is CD for change directory
and then we want to change directory to apps slash pass slash HD docs
so that's where most of the past server files are stored.
And then we're going to use a command called VI which is short for them which opens up a text editor
and the file that we want to edit in this text that is our server.
Dr. J.S.
which is the file where the settings that we need have been stored.
And again if all goes well you should see this.
So this is all the data that you need to connect to your app.
All right.
So give yourself a slap on the back if you manage to do that.
I'm going to leave that running for the moment.
And then in the background I'm going to go to Android of course dot com slash POS project dot
and this is essentially an android studio project which contains everything you need to get started
with an app that connects to pass server and then when that's downloaded and expanded You should have
a pass server.
Start a project folder wherever you expanded the zip file.
All right don't worry we're nearly there.
We're now going to jump over to Android studio and open up new files file open and then for me it was
in the desktop which is up here and there it is Tarth server started Project.
So click OK and then this will open up just like any Android studio project just like all the other
ones that you've downloaded from this course.
Here we go.
So just in the normal way click project and then we'll have a look in past.
Start to project Java and you can see we've got two files here.
The first is main activity which looks very similar to what we're used to.
It's just got a little past line which sets of past analytics and then you'll see a second class starter
or application which is what does the connection to our past server.
So we're going to need three things an application ID a client key and a server which is essentially
the address of our AWOS instance.
So let's sort of the top application ID.
So if we find the java app that we're using to connect to every instance and you can see here we've
got the app.
So just select it copy using Control-C and then paste.
Be careful if you accidently include some of the double quotes to just delete those afterwards and then
same with the client key which is the same as the master key here.
So just copy that.
And finally the server you are.
Which is this big long one that and it does actually go into the next line for me.
So make sure you get the whole thing including the past at the end.
There we go.
So now finally our set up process is at an end.
You can see we've got a bit of code here.
All it does is creates a new pass object and then saves it on the server.
So we're going to be looking at that in more detail in the next video to see how that actually works.
But for now let's just run a quick test to see if this app does what we want it to i.e. saves some data
on the server.
So it should save an example object with my number value of 2:59 and of my string value of Raupp and
just before we run that there's one very quick thing we need to add.
And don't forget this.
Otherwise you'll get an error.
We need to add a backslash on the and of pass there just like that.
And now this with any luck we'll save our example object on our pass server on AWOS.
You might be wondering how we will know whether that saved or not and we can do that pretty easily by
pasting in the address that we had.
And then just replace pass the end with apps and this if everything is working we'll bring up the past
dashboard or data browser which will allow you to look at and edit if you want the data that's been
saved on your server.
So let's click on my bit NAMI past API and you can see here we go.
So this is our past dashboard and currently we've got no data and no users.
So going back over to Android studio should be running.
So let's take a look an android monitor and you can see we've got past results successful.
Excellent.
Looking very promising.
So now let's just go back over to our data browser or parse dashboard and I'm just going to refresh
that.
And we should with any luck see our example object saved in our data browser and there we go.
You can see we've got an example object and it's got an object id automatically created and we've got
Rob as my string and 2:59 has my number and we've also got a session and user created as well we're
using the user objects later on.
Excellent.
So well-done if you managed to follow along with all of that what we've essentially done is set up past
server on how AWOS instance which means we can save all sorts of user data images in the cloud and then
sync them across devices with our apps in the next video then we'll go back over to Android studio and
we'll see how this past object code works and see what else we can do with pass as well.
I'll see you then.